Of Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering: The Need for Intercultural
Education
Deborah Freedman Lustig
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 28, No. 4. (Dec., 1997), pp. 574-592.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28199712%2928%3A4%3C574%3AOKCDMA%3E2.0.CO%3B2-3
Anthropology & Education Quarterly is currently published by American Anthropological Association.
Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use, available at
http://www.jstor.org/about/terms.html. JSTOR's Terms and Conditions of Use provides, in part, that unless you have obtained
prior permission, you may not download an entire issue of a journal or multiple copies of articles, and you may use content in
the JSTOR archive only for your personal, non-commercial use.
Please contact the publisher regarding any further use of this work. Publisher contact information may be obtained at
http://www.jstor.org/journals/anthro.html.
Each copy of any part of a JSTOR transmission must contain the same copyright notice that appears on the screen or printed
page of such transmission.
The JSTOR Archive is a trusted digital repository providing for long-term preservation and access to leading academic
journals and scholarly literature from around the world. The Archive is supported by libraries, scholarly societies, publishers,
and foundations. It is an initiative of JSTOR, a not-for-profit organization with a mission to help the scholarly community take
advantage of advances in technology. For more information regarding JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
http://www.jstor.org
Wed Feb 20 09:53:12 2008
Of Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering: 
The Need for Intercultural Education 
DEBORAH LUSTIGFREEDMAN 
St. May ' s  College of California 
Multicultural education aims to improve understanding among students of 
different ethnic groups, but it can lessen intergroup conflict only if it is 
implemented systematically. In multiethnic school settings, the relationships 
among students of different "minority" groups are problematic; conflicts need 
to be both understood and addressed if multicultural education is to succeed. In 
one inner-city California high school, the celebration of Kwanzaa leads to 
exclusion and isolation, and the speaking of Spanish in the classroom sparks 
conflict and resentments. 
Throughout much of the world, racial/ethnic tensions and conflicts 
grow unchecked; schools are a key site for the enactment of these 
tensions (Macias 1996).' Multicultural education attempts to address and 
alleviate these tensions. The movement toward multicultural education 
began in the United States after World War 11, flourished in the late 1960s, 
and has continued through the 1990s. Advocates of multicultural edu- 
cation envision a global transformation of the schools. Teacher education 
texts (Diaz 1992; O'Hair and Odell 1993) call for a true re-visioning of 
the school, from the curriculum to pedagogy, from extracurricular ac- 
tivities to discipline. A truly multicultural education would teach the 
histories, literatures, and contemporary experiences of "other Americans" 
as integral parts of the curriculum. Moreover, because the "hidden" cur- 
riculum is just as important as the official curriculum, and the tone and 
content of interactions are just as important as the demographics of the 
school (McCarthy 1993; Sleeter and Grant 1988), multicultural education 
necessitates reforming pedagogy and discipline so that they are cultur- 
ally sensitive as well. 
Proponents of multicultural education affirm that it will improve 
interethnic relationships (ASCD 1977; Hama 1994; Sleeter and Grant 
1988) as well as educational outcomes for students of color (AACTE 
1980; Cummins 1986; Rushton 1981). It is unclear, however, how pro- 
found the reforms have to be in order to reap the benefits of multicultural 
education. In this article, based on ethnographic data from one high 
school in California, I propose that superficial multicultural programs can 
actually exacerbate interethnic conflict. My evidence suggests that mul- 
ticultural education must be implemented intensively and systemati- 
cally, rather than grad~al ly .~ 
Anthropology b Education Quarterly 28(4):574-592. Copyright O 1997, American 
Anthropological Association. 
574 
Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 575 
I agree with Wallace that we should "view multiculturalism not as an 
obdurate and unchanging ideological position but as an opportunity for 
ongoing critical debate" (1993:252).The debate has to include observa-
tions and evaluation of (supposedly) multicultural education as it exists 
in schools today. My critique of multicultural education rests on the 
contrast between the ideal of multicultural education and the extremely 
superficial version that I ~bserved .~  
Token multicultural reforms can intensify ethrucgroup conflict if they 
neglect the power relations among the oppressed-between "minority" 
groups-as well as if they neglect the power relations between the 
dominant and the oppressed. Discussions of multicultural education 
usually revolve around the relationship of students of color to European 
American students, staff, curricula, and pedagogies (McCarthy and 
Willis 1995). But racial tensions, fears, and hatreds also exist between 
different "minorities" in many multiethnic schools (Foley 1990, but see 
Grant and Sleeter 1986 for an e~ception).~In this article I will describe 
how, at one California high school, interethnic tensions are aggravated 
by educational reforms that highlight each ethnic group both sequen-
tiallv and in isolation. 
~ i t h o u ~ hat some schools multicultural education is implemented 
intensively, many more schools are quick to claim that they provide 
multicultural education. "Many well-intentioned but superficial school 
practices parade as multicultural education, such as food fairs, costume 
shows, and window-dressing contributions by people of color" (Sleeter 
1991:9). 
I observed interethnic relations and the attempts at multicultural 
education at one inner-city high school,King High, in Pineview, Califor-
r ~ i a . ~The Pineview school district and community activists, in their 1990 
"Agenda for Positive Change," espouse a thorough multicultural re-
form.6 
[Pineview] is a community rich in cultures, ethnicities, and languages. The 
schools must promote and reflect that richness. This means: 
School personnel are educated about the cultures and histories represented 
among the children they teach. 
School personnel are as diverse as the student body, providing the sensitiv-
ity and language skills to bridge school with home. 
Textbooks are infused with the contributions of all peoples. 
Diverse values and traditions are integrated in every aspect of the educa-
tional program. 
Education is no longer presented from an exclusively European-centered 
point of view. 
Instruction and programs are designed for students to interact harmoni-
ously across racial, ethnic, cultural, and language differences. 
Three years after this impressive outline was published, multicultural 
educationat King High was still limited to posters on the wall and special 
assemblies.Like King High, most schoolsgo no further than a superficial 
576 Anthropology b Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
addition of multicultural events and heroes, even though scholars agree 
that multicultural education should be much more than "add cultures 
and stir" (Arvizu and Saravia-Shore 1990). At King High, these very 
superficial attempts at multicultural education actually exacerbated 
group conflict, but I suggest that a truly multicultural education with a 
focus on process and boundaries could alleviate interethnic tensions. 
Twenty years ago, Cortes said that although multicultural education 
should be more than isolated events and units, their addition was a 
positive first step. 
The recognition of ethnic groups throughschool events and the study of single 
ethnic groups through special units and courses has been a valuable and long 
overdue addition to our educational process. . . they have intrinsic value and . . . 
they provide the cutting edge of multicultural educational reform. [Cortes 
1977:391 
Most schools have not gone beyond this first step. Moreover, this first 
step, in isolation, is not only inadequate, but it is actually dangerous. As 
Hanna warns, "Besides the lack of evidence that multicultural education 
programs do what they are supposed to do, multicultural programs may 
have unintended consequences" (1994:72). Token multicultural educa- 
tion can inflame interethnic resentments, surely an unintended conse- 
quence. In her case study of the implementation of a multicultural 
"school within a school," Ulichny found that multiculturalism in prac- 
tice meant "different foods, festivals, and 'foreign' languages," instead 
of "an exploration of societal patterns of discrimination and inequality 
that are based on class, race, and place of origin" (1996:343). The empha- 
sis on cultural heritage worsened interethnic relations because students 
of some ethnic groups were resentful of those who seemed to have a 
monopoly on "culture." 
I suggest that instead of starting from the "special events" approach, 
we rework the model of multicultural education. Successful multicultur- 
al education requires an analysis of the dynamics of student relations 
across all ethnic groups-"minority" and "majorityu-and must begin 
with the particular culture of each school, as well as encompass broader 
societal patterns of access to power and privilege. Some scholars have 
argued for a deepening of multicultural education toward what 
McCarthy calls "critical multiculturalism,. . . a process that goes beyond 
'inclusivity' and emphasizes relationality and multivocality" (1993:290). 
As I will explain later, I prefer the term intercultural education to fore- 
ground the relationships between and the diversity within e t h c  
groups. 
Ethnographic Setting and Research Methods 
King High is located in Pineview, a large city in California. Pineview 
is a poor city, and King High has the highest concentration of low-income 
students of any Pineview high school? The ethnic makeup of the students 
577 Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
is 80 percent African American, 10 percent Latino, and 10 percent other 
ethnicities. Approximately 1,500 students are enrolled at King High, but 
on any day only about half of them are present. 
My analysis of interethnic relations and the multicultural efforts at 
King is drawn from a larger ethnographic study of teen mothers and 
their school experiences (Lustig 1997). King High has a largely self- 
contained program to enable teen mothers to finish school (the School- 
Age Parent, or SAP, program). During the year-and-a-half that I spent 
at the SAP program, about 80 percent of these students were African 
American, 10 percent were Latina, and 10 percent were Asian American. 
In the course of the school year over one hundred students enrolled in 
the SAP program, but only about 25 students attended more or less 
regularly.*I was at the school four full days a week, spending most of 
my time with the teen mothers in the three classrooms used by the SAP 
program. Some SAP students were mainstreamed into "regular" (non- 
SAP) classes, and I occasionally accompanied them there as well. The 
quotes from students, teachers, and administrators are from my field 
notes and taped interviews. In the school setting, it often seemed natural 
to take my field notes during classes and assemblies. During lunch, 
support group, and other times when it would have been intrusive to 
take notes, I took notes as soon as possible afterwards, either during the 
next class period or that afternoon at home. 
While my main concern in this article is interethnic relations among 
students, teachers and administrators could play a vital role in amelio- 
rating those relations. I will address teachers' feelings about interethnic 
conflict, multicultural education, and their responsibilities as teachers. 
Although I did not conduct formal interviews with teachers and admin- 
istrators, I had long conversations with ten teachers (all of the academic 
and "support services" teachers in the King High SAP program as well 
as some of the SAP teachers at other Pineview schools) and briefer 
interactions with several of the administrators. I took notes on these 
conversations shortly after they took place. I also attended most staff 
meetings at the King High SAP program and several of the districtwide 
SAP meetings, including the orientation at the beginning of the year and 
the midyear retreat, and I took notes during these meetings. 
In the SAP program in Pineview and at King High, almost all the 
administrators are African American. In the SAP program, almost all the 
academic teachers are European American, while almost all the "support 
services" teachers, who teach nutrition, parenting, prenatal education, 
health, and career planning, are African American. This distribution is 
problematic for four reasons: first, the alignment of European Americans 
with academic subjects reinforces the association between academic 
success and "acting white" (Fordham 1988); second, the European 
American teachers, because of their ethrucity, feel particularly inade- 
quate to deal with the ethnic conflicts that arise; third, the Latinas are left 
578 Anthropology 6 Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
with no Latino adults at school; and fourth, the ethnic makeup of the 
staff is not seen as problematic by the administrators. 
According to one teacher, Ms. Wells, the academic teachers were 
concerned about the patterning of diversity among the staff and told the 
administrators that they thought academic teachers of color should be 
hired. The director downplayed their concerns by referring to the diver- 
sity among the staff as a whole and pointed to the undeniable fact of 
budget cutbacks, which were leading to layoffs, not hiring. 
At the SAP staff orientation before the school year began, the director 
lauded the program for having such an ethtucally diverse staff: "Now 
we can really serve the diverse population of t h s  city and this program." 
She overlooked the staff distribution and assignments: the few Asian 
American and Latino staff members were in the district office or the other 
teen mother programs in the district; the European Americans were all 
academic teachers; and the African Americans were primarily chld care 
staff, support services teachers, and administrators. Furthermore, her 
assumption that a diverse staff would automatically make the SAP 
program culturally sensitive proved to be unfounded. 
I conducted taped interviews with 75 teenmothers, of whom half were 
or had been SAP students at King High. The interviews covered a wide 
range of subjects, but the questions relevant to this article were, "What 
has it been like for you growing up [black/Latina/white/Asianl? Have 
you ever experienced racism or prejudice against you in school? What 
do you thnk about how the different groups get along at school?" I also 
asked about the ethnic makeup of the schools the informant had at- 
tended and asked other questions relevant to each informant's particular 
situation. For example, if the young woman had a child with a partner 
of a different ethnic background, I asked about that; if she had been 
present at one of the problematic events or incidents I had observed, I 
asked about that. 
At best, the relationships between the Latino and African American 
students at King are characterized by indifference and self-segregation, 
and at worst, by violence and hostility. In the teen mother program, 
indifference and self-segregation predominate. I observed that students 
would not even ask to borrow a pen or a ruler from someone of a 
different ethnic group. In one instance, a student shared a bag of candy 
with everyone in the room except the one student of a different ethnic 
group. When the students group themselves for work or lunch, they 
almost always self-segregate by ethnicity. In the school at large, there are 
occasional fights across ethnic lines that sometimes escalate into feuds. 
At times the principal puts requests in the school bulletin pleading with 
students of one ethnic group not to respond to an incident in which 
members of their group have been attacked by another. 
The teachers at King High are no less vulnerable to racial tensions than 
the students. According to one of the SAP teachers, at one volatile faculty 
meeting teachers openly called each other racists. Moreover, he told me 
579 Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
that some King High teachers sit in the staffroom and make racist 
comments about other teachers and students. (There are 61 teachers at 
King High; the two full-time and four part-time SAP teachers at King 
have little to do with the other teachers). I felt t h s  tension when I 
introduced myself at a King High faculty meeting. In contrast to my 
warm reception in the SAP program, other King teachers were quite 
hostile, not to me personally but to the prospect of another study. One 
African American teacher exclaimed, "They'll approve rat studies, but 
they won't approve black studies!" Although the school district has 
approved "black studies and offers it as an elective, the teacher's 
comment indicates that she felt that the "black studies program was 
inadequate; she saw a parallel between the dearth of Africanand African 
American studies and the potentially colonial implications of a Euro- 
pean American researcher at a predominantly African American school. 
She was metaphorically suggesting a contrast between African Ameri- 
can studies, which ideally provides students with a view of African 
Americans as subjects or agents, and educational research that portrays 
African Americans as "research subjects" or "rats." 
The school situation is a reflection, although not a perfect mirror, of 
the community, where ethnic conflicts frequently erupt in local politics 
and on the streets. Ethnic groups battle with each other over shrinking 
resources: everyone seems to feel that if one group advances, the others 
lose ground. Conflicts over bilingual education illustrate this general 
pattern: Latino and Asian American parents struggle to reform inade- 
quate bilingual programs, while African American parents resent the 
extra funding and attention that their childrenare not getting. "The battle 
over whose culture counts, particularly from the perspective of students 
and the communities they come from, is becoming more visibly a battle 
among so-called minority cultures and only invisibly one of white versus 
other" (Ulichny 1996:334, emphasis in original). 
Strength in Numbers 
At King, where most of the students and administrators are African 
American, the African American students appear to be in a position of 
dominance over the Latino students. This "dominance" is only relative, 
of course, and does not negate the racism that African American students 
experience outside school. Moreover, their dominance is not absolute, 
but rather varies from situation to situation. King High's multicultural 
efforts overwhelmingly favor African American culture, suggesting that 
multicultural resources are committed in proportion to the number of 
students of each group. Kwanzaa and Black History Month are cele- 
brated, African dance is taught, rooms are decorated with posters cele- 
brating Africa and African Americans, and Africa is emphasized in social 
studies. The school, however, is by no means Afrocentric; rather, it is 
quite traditional and Eurocentric: the teaching methods are based on 
individual achievement and competition, and the history books are 
580 Anthropology G. Education Quarterly Volume 28,1997 
largely peopled by European and European American men? As one 
student in U.S. history remarked, "I'm already to page 142,and I haven't 
read about a single black person." As one teacher remarked, "[Admin- 
istrators] say we should make the curriculum multicultural, but they 
never do anything. They never come see what I'm teaching." She was 
pointing out that there is no follow-through to the rhetoric used by 
administrators. For example, the SAP mission statement refers to "excel- 
lence through diversity," but I saw no concrete manifestations of this 
philosophy. 
In other words, multicultural education at King was a veneer of 
cultural relevance over a Eurocentric educational system. This veneer 
was not directly tied to the lives and experiences of the students. For 
example, most of the African American students did not celebrate Kwan- 
zaa at home, so while they may have enjoyed learning about it, it was 
not their (inner-city African American) culture that they saw reflected as 
part of the c~rriculum.'~ Moreover, the African American veneer ex- 
cluded the Latino, Asian American, and European American students. 
The Latino and Asian American students did not see their heritage 
celebrated as the African American and European American students 
did. The non-African American students were further excluded because 
it was never clear that the Afrocentric events and materials should be for 
all the students, although students may have engaged with the activities 
differently, depending on their own background. 
To a large extent-and paradoxically-the exclusion stemmed from 
the failure of teachers to explicitly acknowledge that they have students 
of different ethnicities. Race and ethnicity were rarely discussed in 
classrooms, so during an event like Kwanzaa, there was no discussion 
of how non-African American students could or should relate to the 
proceedings. The assumption of exclusivity and the resultant hostility 
surfaced most clearly during special events that were nominally multi- 
cultural but were actually monocultural. 
Kwanzaa 
To celebrate Kwanzaa, an African theater group came to work with 
the teen mothers to prepare a performance that included acting, dancing, 
and a rite of passage for the participants. The production was a major 
undertaking, involving about two months of preparation. It was a re- 
markably positive experience for the performers: the directors were 
skilled at encouraging the students to do their best, and they and the 
audience were pleased by the results. Rehearsals took place during class 
time and included frequent references to African women and their 
strengths and roles. When rehearsals first began, all the students in the 
SAP program had to go, and everyone participated. Yet as the weeks 
went by, a few of the African American students and all the non-African 
American students stopped coming to rehearsals." One of the African 
American students who stopped participating was pregnant and felt the 
Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 581 
dancing was too strenuous; perhaps the others were uncomfortable 
about performing in front of an audience, or did not like the demands 
placed on them by the directors. The Latinas and Asian Americans 
stopped because, as one said, "It's all about African women-it's not for 
me." Through this attrition, the nonparticipants missed out ona valuable 
experience. Since the nonparticipants included some African Americans, 
the pattern of ethnic separation was less obvious;12 nevertheless, the 
process tacitly told everyone involved that African American culture 
was relevant only to African Americans. 
Cinco de  Mayo 
Up until Cinco de Mayo, no assemblies or special events had cele- 
brated Latino cultures. Just before Cinco de Mayo, the teen mothers went 
to a conference on African American women. None of the Latinas went. 
One of them explained, "I'm tired of African American this and African 
American that. They never have anythng for us. I feel left out. Cinco de 
Mayo is coming and they haven't planned anything." Notice her convic- 
tion that an event based on a particular culture is "for" students of that 
culture. 
King High did have a Cinco de Mayo assembly, which included the 
singing of the Mexican national anthem. Most of the African Americans 
refused to rise for the singing, although they were repeatedly told to do 
so. While their reluctance stemmed largely from apathy and a general- 
ized resistance to authority, Latinos interpreted their refusal as hostile 
and disrespectful. The following year, during the Cinco de Mayo assem- 
bly, the Latino students dancing on stage went into the audience and 
invited other students (mostly African American) to dance with them. 
They joined in willingly, and the positive and upbeat mood corroborates 
my intuition that the African American students were unwilling to stand 
for a national anthem, rather than unwilling to participate in a celebra- 
tion of Latino cultures. 
Cinco de Mayo was the only time I saw an example of truly multicul- 
tural education-paradoxically, it took place out of school. The case 
managers organized a Cinco de Mayo/Mother's Day celebration for teen 
mothers from the entire county.13 The event consisted of speeches and 
performances about Cinco de Mayo and Mexican culture, performances 
addressed to urban teens in general (skits about violence and safe sex), 
and performances by African American rappers. In general, the students 
enjoyed the event, which was more multicultural than others. In particu- 
lar, one speaker made theonly attempt I saw in a year-and-a-half to show 
how the history or culture of one ethnic group could be relevant to 
students of other ethnicities. A Latino community leader, talking about 
Mexican history and Cinco de Mayo, described how the small, under- 
equipped Mexican army had defeated the seemingly more powerful 
French army when it invaded Mexico in 1862.He explained, "All of you, 
whether you're Latina, black, white, Asian, you're facing a lot. You're 
582 Anthropology 6 Education Quarterly Volume28, 1997 
trying to bring y o u  kids up right. You're up against drugs, violence, 
poverty. But you can do it. Just think of the Mexican soldiers-no one 
thought they could win, but they did, and you can too." The audience 
responded with cheers and clapping. This speaker was unusual: he 
acknowledged the presence of different ethnic groups in the room, 
pointed out to them their common problems, and suggested that they 
could all be inspired by Mexicans of long ago. 
The success of the Cinco de Mayo/Mother's Day event provided a 
model of "something for everyone." Some of the teachers and adminis- 
trators of the SAP program had been concerned about the relatively 
heavy emphasis on African American culture throughout the year, 
discussing at staff meetings their desire to include other cultures. As one 
administrator said, "We have to do something for the Latina girls." But 
they did not discuss how the non-African American students could or 
should relate to African American material, nor did they ever express a 
concern that the African American students were missing out by not 
being exposed to Latino cultures. They, like the students, work on the 
assumption that curricula focusing on one culture are "for" students of 
that culture. 
In an attempt to be more inclusive, the following year's winter holiday 
event was not only a Kwanzaa celebration. Instead, it was called Winter 
Holidays Around the World. The event consisted of tabletop displays of 
different cultures and their holidays and a brief introduction to each one 
by teachers and community members. The affair was a dismal failure: 
the students were inattentive and rude during the presentations. The 
format provided a microcosm of the token multicultural education 
practiced at King High: the achievements and culture of each group were 
presented in isolation from other groups, even when they were all 
included in the same event. In contrast, at the Cinco de Mayo/Mother's 
Day celebration, connections were forged across ethnic lines. 
Teachers and the "Comfort Zone" 
I have identified three major weaknesses in the token multicultural 
education at King High: (1)the allocation of multicultural resources in 
proportion to the ethnic makeup of the student body; (2)the implication 
that an event based on one culture is only for members of that ethruc 
group; and (3) the presentation of different cultures in isolation from 
each other. These factors combined to drive wedges between the differ- 
ent ethnic groups at the school. True, they did not cause these tensions, 
but they reflected and reinforced problems that exist in the society at 
large. 
The teachers and the school are culpable, however, for their failure to 
address ethnic conflict. A problem at King, one that is not addressed by 
existing multicultural efforts, is that interethnic conflict is quelled as 
quickly as possible without addressing the underlying tensions that 
provoke conflict. A classroom incident illustrates how the teachers handle 
583 Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
ethnic conflict. The students were all supposedly working on their 
assignments. The only two Latina students in the room were talking in 
Spanish and laughing. An African American student, Tasha, asked 
Lucila, "Do you like talking Spanish more than English?" Lucila replied 
that she did, and then Tasha said, somewhat aggressively, "Well, I wish 
you wouldn't. I think it's really rude." The Latinas seemed to want to 
defuse the situation, perhaps from a fear of conflict. Lucila's response 
was very conciliatory: "I know what you mean, okay." Her friend Olivia, 
normally quite outspoken, did not say anything and busied herself with 
her books. Two other students, both African American, reproached 
Tasha for her request and defended the rights of Latinos to speak in 
Spanish. One said, "That's their language. If they didn't speak English, 
would it be rude for you to speak English [in front of them]?" The other 
defender took a different tack: "You make them feel bad when you say 
that. It's disrespecting their language." The interaction among the Afri- 
can Americans almost led to a fight, and the teacher, a European Ameri- 
can, responded by taking each of the three African American students 
outside to talk to them individually. Mr. Gallagher (the teacher) did not 
talk to the Latina students, nor did he address the class as a whole or 
open up a class discussion on the subject. 
Mr. Gallagher feared that the conflict among the African American 
students would lead to a fight. The students were not inherently uncon- 
trollable, but there had been several violent fights that year, and a group 
discussion about ethnicity could have exploded. His primary concern 
was to maintain order, not to facilitate the students' discussion of eth- 
nicity, language, and exclusion so that it could be conducted in a respect- 
ful way. After reading an earlier version of t h s  article, this teacher was 
upset by my portrayal of him. "I've tried so hard not to be a typical white 
male, but that's how it makes me seem."'" reassured him that I do not 
think his actions (and inactions) suggest that he is a typical whte  male, 
but rather that he, like many teachers, is afraid of conflict in the classroom 
and reluctant to address ethnic tensions in group discussions. He had no 
training or preparation in mediating interethnic conflict; an open discus- 
sion of Latina/African American relations would have been risky, and 
he was playing it safe. 
In the SAP program, teachers have a heavy administrative and teach- 
ing burden. For example, they have to teach different levels of the same 
subject simultaneously. They may teach remedial math, pre-algebra, and 
algebra at the same time in the same classroom. They use these con- 
straints to explain and excuse the absence of discussion and innovative 
teaching in their classrooms. They see discussions of any topic as a 
luxury that they cannot afford. As one teacher put it, "I want to do well 
by these girls, but I'm not even able to do the basics [because of the 
constraints of the program]."'%iven the challenging nature of their job 
and the superficial nature of multicultural education as it is implemented 
at King High, some teachers see multicultural education as a frill, a 
584 Anthropology 6 Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
luxury they cannot afford. When asked whether she was in favor of more 
multicultural education, one teacher responded, "I don't want to water 
down the basics." 
Even teachers who like to have discussions in their classroom often 
shy away from openly discussing race and ethnicity with their students 
(Foley 1990). As bell hooks observes, "The unwillingness to approach 
teaching from a standpoint that includes awareness of race, sex, and class 
is often rooted in the fear that classrooms will be uncontrollable, that 
emotions and passions will not be contained" (1994:39). Teachers' fear 
of conflict is understandable4 fight to overcome the same fear when I 
teach, the fear of leaving the "comfort zone," as Jackson and Solis call it. 
Comfort zones are those arenas where multiculturalism has been advocated 
from. . . essentially additive, procedural, and technical perspectives. The task 
before us, then, is to force the parameters of those comfort zones outward, 
pushing for broader and more liberating constructs capable of engendering a 
pedagogy for transformation in a real and material sense, and not merely a 
recognition and acknowledgement of difference. [1995:2] 
The comfort zone is really not so comfortable when conflict simmers, 
ignored and unacknowledged. 
In fact, confronting and examining conflict can ease tensions, as teach- 
ers find when they are willing to address interethnic conflict in their 
classrooms. Ms. Wells described the atmosphere at another SAP pro- 
gram. She explained that when she was teaching there, students of 
different ethnicities got along well together. When students made racial 
slurs, she and the other teacher always discussed those comments in 
class with all the students, which she saw as important in maintaining 
the positive atmosphere there. Her experience supports Ulichny's (1996) 
finding that airing grievances in a respectful way can reduce ethnic 
tensions. After Ms. Wells and the other teacher left the program, the 
situation rapidly deteriorated to the point of guarded hostility between 
the groups, suggesting that their interventions were helpful. As she puts 
it, "the culture of the program changed." 
Ms. Wells and her colleague were unusual in their willingness to 
discuss interethruc relations with their students as a group. At the King 
High SAP program, the academic teachers were especially reluctant to 
intervene in conflicts among students of color because of their "white- 
ness." As Ms. Wells said, "It's a fear of meddling when you're perceived 
as an outsider, an oversensitivity [that the students will say], 'Who are 
you to push us together?"' Most teachers are afraid of conflict and 
unprepared to mediate interethnic conflict. A teacher described a major 
interethnic skirmish that had taken place on campus the previous year: 
"We felt horrible. We wanted to do something, but we didn't know what 
to do, so we didn't do anything. There was no assembly, no dialogue." 
Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
Language, Voice, and Power 
Earlier, I said that African Americans are in a position of dominance 
over the Latino students at King High, and I described how Latinas feel 
left out of "multicultural" activities. African Americans do not always 
feel dominant. In the incident described above, Tasha was enraged when 
the Latinas spoke Spanish in front of her. Her anger is symptomatic of 
the attitude of many, but not all, African Americans toward Latinos. 
Listen to Tasha: "Where I used to go to school, the Mexican kids would 
always be talking and laughing, and I never paid any attention. But then 
a friend of mine who speaks Spanish told me that they were talking about 
me. They sit up there talking Spanish, and it's just like they're whisper- 
ing." 
The ability to speak Spanish gives the Latinas a dangerous power over 
the African Americans-"dangerous" because even if they are not talk- 
ing about their classmates, they can always be suspected of doing so. 
Indeed, once the African American students learned that I speak Span- 
ish, they frequently asked me what the Latinas were talking about. They 
did not ask the Latinas, even those who are bilingual. The African 
Americans assumed that the Latinas would never admit that they were 
talking about someone in the SAP program. Among high school stu- 
dents, being "talked about" has serious repercussions. A moment of 
gossip can lead to fighting, death, or being kicked out of school (Lustig 
1994). So Tasha's concern should not be dismissed as adolescent vanity. 
She was expressing a real fear shared by many students in the SAP 
program and at other schools (Ulichny 1996). 
The ability to speak Spanish gives Latino students a distinct advan- 
tage, but Latinos also have to be wary of how they conduct their conver- 
sations, lest they be misinterpreted.16 Ulichny (1996) found that multi- 
cultural efforts made African American students quite jealous of Latinos 
(and others) who had their "own" language. A further danger is that by 
speaking Spanish Latinos are identifying themselves as foreign, non- 
American, "invaders." As one African American student said of Propo- 
sition 187, "Well, I think [the government] should limit the number of 
people they let in, I mean the [Latino immigrants] are coming in and 
taking over everything. They have all these businesses we don't have." 
Common Ground 
The students who defended Olivia and Lucila's right to speak Spanish 
are not threatened by the speaking of Spanish-a reminder that ethnic 
groups are far from homogeneous. To avoid stereotyping, any truly 
multicultural program must attend to the diversity within each ethnic 
group. The token multicultural efforts at King High define ethnic groups 
as homogeneous, unchanging, and in opposition to each other. The lived 
experience of students contradicts this construction of ethnicity, but the 
586 Anthropology 6 Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
school's institutional discourse of ethnicity does not recognize intraeth- 
nic differences or interethnic dialogues. 
If some students can bridge the gap between ethnic groups, more can 
as well. For example, a few African American students began aslung me 
to teach them Spanish (no foreign language is offered in the SAP pro- 
gram). Their desire to learn Spanish, as well as the students' defense of 
Latinas' right to speak Spanish, shows that some students have internal- 
ized a respect for cultural difference. Unfortunately, I was only able to 
teach them a few words, but my microintervention did lead to a moment 
of rapprochement. Olivia was sitting with me and the African Americans 
who were "learning" Spanish.I7 Tyisha asked her, "Does your boyfriend 
speak English?" 
Olivia: No, but I'm teaching him. I'm trying to anyway. It's hard. 
Tyisha: Mhrn, I'm teaching my boyfriend English, too. 
Olivia: Does he speak- 
Tyisha: -He speaks that jail English. I want to teach him to talk right. 
The connection between Olivia and Tyisha was fleeting, but more and 
more of such moments would allow the students to know each other as 
people struggling with (some) similar issues. 
I suggest that the best way to improve interethnic relations is to look 
closely at the few connections that form across ethnic lines and to expand 
them and develov others in the same vein. It seems clear to me that it is 
not enough to j;st put students of different ethnic groups in close 
proximity. The teen mother program I have been describing is very 
small--on most days fewer than 20 students spend all day together. 
Close proximity is simply not enough to break down barriers (Allport 
1954).I interviewed most of the students, and they claimed that they got 
along with people of different ethnicities; many had friends of other 
ethrucities as children. Yet now in high school, most of them were no 
longer forming those friendships, nor were they even superficially 
friendlv to students of other ethnicities. 
i 
I found an example of a successful interethnic friendship in a small 
group of Latinas and Asian Americans who attended Englishas a Second 
Language classes together two hours a day. Every day, their common 
experience of not being fluent in English was reinforced when they left 
the SAP program area and walked to ESL class. However, if common 
experiences were enough to overcome interethnic tensions, the students 
in the teen mother program would get along well, since they were all 
teen mothers. Clearly, t h s  commonality did not, by itself, translate into 
interethnic friendshps. 
Nevertheless, when the students occasionally made conversational 
overtures across ethnic lines, they usually talked about children or 
pregnancy. If one student was returning from the nursery, she might 
initiate a conversation by saying, "Your baby is [sleeping/eating/cry- 
ing]," or she might be asked, "How's my baby?" And then sometimes a 
more general conversation developed from the initial exchange. Students 
587 Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
rarely initiated these conversations without a stimulus such as someone 
returning from the nursery. 
Teachers could build on this potential for communication by encour- 
aging students to explore and discuss their similarities and differences. 
English and social studies teachers should help students make personal 
connections to the academic material, even if it does not reflect the 
experiences of their own ethnic group. This process would deepen 
students' engagement with the material and help them forge bonds with 
each other. Sometimes students make these connections on their own: 
while reading about Native Americans, one African American student 
exclaimed, "Whites just had to exploit everybody!" Unfortunately, the 
teacher did not pick up on this remark to start a discussion, and everyone 
just kept on with their reading. Ulichny (1996) suggests that students of 
color can recognize their similar experiences as adolescents and as 
members of oppressed groups. Clearly, students acknowledge these 
commonalities at times, but for these glimpses of shared experiences to 
transcend the divisions between ethnic groups, teachers must actively 
intervene to facilitate and build on the students' discoveries. 
Conclusions 
The hierarchy of power among "minority" groups is not clear. Even 
when one group apparently dominates another, the hierarchy may be 
only situational, not absolute. In this article, I have described the com- 
plexity of the power relations between African American and Latina teen 
mothers, a complexity that is not immediately apparent. If multicultural 
education is to bring students of different ethrucities together, it has to 
be more sophisticated than the current approach as it is practiced at King 
High. The "special event approach can actually worsen existing conflict 
by encapsulating ethnicities. Instead of relying on posters of notable 
"other" Americans or textbook "boxes" that present decontextualized 
incidents and individuals, the curriculum should begn with the experi- 
ences of the students and an open examination of ongoing conflict at the 
school and in the community. Discussing Latino-Anglo relations at a 
high school in Los Angeles, Patthey-Chavez gives an example of how 
reluctant school administrators are to listen to students' voices and 
experiences, "It is much more likely that the district would piece together 
an in-service about Latino culture, during which a few 'specialists' . . . 
present their reflections on Latino culture, than it is that the school would 
ask the students to actually articulate and discuss their needs" (1993:55). 
Listening to students' voices and acknowledging their conflicts would 
form a foundation of understanding on which to build a multicultural 
education that includes all the cultures of the United States and, even 
more importantly, includes an analysis of the interrelations among 
groups and the variations within groups. I suggest we return to the 
post-World War I1 term intercultural education. In the 1940s, this term was 
part of an assimilationist rhetoric that reflected an idealistic vision of 
588 Anthropology 6 Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
everyone getting along together (North Central Association of Colleges 
and Secondary Schools 1946; Warren and Roberts 1945). Enough time 
has passed for us to reclaim the term (but not the rhetoric or programs) 
to breathe new life into "multicultural" education. "Inter/betweenU is 
preferable to "multi/many" because it calls attention to process and 
boundaries rather than to a collection of separate cultures. Intercultural 
education, as I envision it, is a more precise term for the most intensive 
methods of multicultural education (Banks 1996; McCarthy 1993; Sleeter 
and Grant 1988); yet intercultural education differs slightly from these 
approaches: it emphasizes the relationships between and within all 
ethnic groups instead of focusing exclusively on the oppression of 
minority groups by European Americans. Adopting this term would 
give some conceptual clarity to a muddied terrain. As it is now, the term 
multicultural education covers too broad a spectrum of programs and 
approaches. Twenty years ago, Gibson warned that "the vagueness of 
terms and assumptions [related to multicultural education] appears to 
be increasing" (1976:1), and her warning still holds true. But adopting 
the term intercultural education is less important than implementing 
intercultural education, whatever it is called. 
The implementation of intercultural education depends on a clear 
understanding of the specific patterns of interethnic relations at each 
school and a willingness to investigate those patterns with students from 
their perspectives. Students, teachers, administrators, and researchers 
should begin with local ethnography (Carlson 1976; La Belle and Ward 
1994) and then look beyond the school to the community and nation to 
examine inter-"minority" conflict in the context of overarching struc- 
tures of racism, sexism, and social class. If teachers are to implement an 
intercultural education, they need training and support to help them 
acknowledge conflicts and lead students to resolve them. Students de- 
serve more than a smattering of special events. They deserve an educa- 
tion that reflects their histories and experiences and helps them negotiate 
a society in which traversing cultural borderlands is the norm. "The 
Borderlands are physically present wherever two or more cultures edge 
each other, where people of different races occupy the same territory" 
(Anzaldua 1987). Life in the borderlands can be fraught with tensionand 
fear, for young people and adults, but intercultural education could ease 
the way. 
Deborah Freedman Lustig teaches anthropology at St Mafls College of California. 
Notes 
Acknowledgments. An earlier version of this article was presented at the Sacra- 
mento Anthrqpological Society Annual Meetings, March 1994. I would like to 
thank conference participants, Rose Glickman, Mary Grantham-Campbell, 
589 Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
Lawrence Hirschfeld, Deborah Jackson, Kathryn Anderson-Levitt, the AEQ 
reviewers, and students and teachers at King High for their comments. This 
article is based on 18 months of fieldwork conducted during 1993-1995. I would 
like to thank the Spencer Foundation, the Research Institute for the Study of Man, 
the Abigail Quigley McCarthy Center for Women, the Woodrow Wilson Foun- 
dation Women's Studies Program, Rackham College of the University of Michi- 
gan, and Sigma Xi for their funding of this research. 
1. Throughout this article, I will use ethnic as a shorthand for raciallethnic, 
because it is less clumsy and more "anthropologically correct," although it does 
not adequately reflect the effects of centuries of assumptions of and about 
biological rack. 
2. The second claim of proponents of multicultural education is that it im- 
proves educational outcomes for students of color. A discussion of academic 
achievement is outside the scope of this article, but clearly a pervasive multicul-
tural curriculum and pedagogy is more likely to result in greater academic 
engagement and achievement than a token multiculturalism. Ulichny (1996) 
found that even a poorly implemented multicultural program had (small) 
positive effects on students' performance; the program did, however, increase 
interethnic tension. Moreover, interethnic conflict itself can lead to poor educa- 
tional outcomes if students become (further) alienated from school. For example, 
one of my informants dropped out of school because she was getting beaten up 
by a group of students of a different ethnicity. 
3. My critique should not be confused with those who seek to uphold the 
"canon" of Western civilization (Bloom 1987; Schlesinger 1992); in contrast, I am 
calling for a more intensive and thorough multiculturalism and a critical look at u u 
what passes for multicultural education in (some) schools. 
4. The terms minority and majority are problematic since in many schools and 
communities, people of color are in the majority and European Americans are 
in the minority. But I use the terms with their everyday meaning, especially since 
they reflect power more accurately than they do population. 
5. Names of persons, programs, schools, and cities are pseudonyms. 
6. This document was prepared by a local nonprofit agency in collaboration 
with district personnel and community members. 
7. Nationwide, 13 percent of the population lives below the poverty line; in 
Pineview, 20 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. 
8. Attendance was poor, but not as bad as these numbers make it seem. The 
population is very transient: some students enrolled and only came for a short 
time, others enrolled and later transferred to the comprehensive high school. So 
there was usually a core group of about 25, out of about 50 who could beexpected 
to show up. 
9. As part of my research, I reviewed all the textbooks used in the SAP 
program. 
10. I would like to thank Ms. Wells for drawing my attention to this point. 
11. The teachers did urge the students to continue going, but felt they should 
not force them to participate, given how out of place the students felt. 
12. The fact that students do not always split by ethnicity reflects the hetero- 
geneity within each ethnic group, but it also sometimes obscures the divisions 
that do exist. 
13. Case managers are similar to social workers. 
14. I gave Mr. Gallagher a more recent copy of this article, and after reading 
it he e-mailed me that he did "not want to comment further on the incident or 
590 Anthropology & Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
topic(s) covered in the paper" and that he did not "have a desire to engage in a 
continued dialogue related to the paper." I am saddened by his unwillingness 
to talk with me, but since he is unwilling to talk with me about it, I can do no 
more than record his (implied) objection. 
15. This teacher recognizes that she could do better even with the constraints 
and has requested a mentor teacher, but the program director has not responded 
to her requests. 
16. I never had the opportunity to observe a classroom in which there was 
more than one student speaking the same Asian language, but presumably a 
similar situation could arise with Asian American students. 
17. I had asked Olivia to help me "teach." I had thought that she could teach 
them, but then I saw that that would have underscored her greater power as a 
Spanish speaker. 
References Cited 
Allport, Gordon W. 
1954 The Nature of Prejudice. Boston: Addison Wesley. 
American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education (AACTE), 
Commission on Multicultural Education 
1980 Multicultural Teacher Education: Preparing Educators to Provide Edu- 
cational Equity. H. P. Baptiste, M. Baptiste, and D. Gollnick, eds. Washing- 
ton, D.C.: AACTE. 
Anzaldua, Gloria 
1987 Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza. San Francisco: Spin- 
sters/Aunt Lute. 
Arvizu, Steven, and Marietta Saravia-Shore 
1990 Cross-Cultural Literacy: An Anthropological Approach to Dealing with 
Diversity. Education and Urban Society 22(4):364-376. 
Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development (ASCD), 
Multicultural Education Commission 
1977 Multicultural Education: Commitments, Issues, and Applications. 
Washington, D.C.: ASCD. 
Banks, James A. 
1996 Multicultural Education, Transformative Knowledge, and Action. New 
York: Teachers College Press. 
Bloom, Allan 
1987 The Closing of the American Mind. New York: Simon and Schuster. 
Carlson, Paul 
1976 Toward a Definition of Local-Level Multicultural Education. Anthro- 
pology and Education Quarterly 7:26-30. 
Cortes, Carlos E. 
1977 Nondecision-Making and Decision-Making in Multicultural Education. 
In Multicultural Education: The Interdisciplinary Approach-A Summary 
of Conference Proceedings. Sacramento: Office of Intergroup Relations, 
California State Department of Education. 
Cummins, Jim 
1986 Empowering Minority Students. Harvard Educational Review 56(1):1%36. 
Diaz, Carlos, ed. 
1992 Multicultural Education for the 21st Century. Washington, D.C.: Na- 
tional Education Association. 
591 Lustig Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering 
Foley, Douglas 
1990 Learning Capitalist Culture. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania 
Press. 
Fordham, Signithia 
1988 Racelessness as a Factor in Black Students' School Success: Pragmatic 
Strategy or Pyrrhic Victory. Harvard Educational Review 58(1):54-84. 
Gibson, Margaret A. 
1976 Introduction: Anthropological Perspectives on Multicultural Educa- 
tion. Anthropology and Education Quarterly 7:l-3. 
Grant, Carl A., and Christine E. Sleeter 
1986 After the School Bell Rings. London: Falmer. 
Hanna, Judith Lynne 
1994 Issues in Supporting School Diversity: Academics, Social Relations, and 
the Arts. Anthropology and Education Quarterly 25:66-85. 
hooks, bell 
1994 Teaching to Transgress: Education as the Practice of Freedom. New 
York: Routledge. 
Jackson, Sandra, and Jose Solis 
1995 Introduction: Resisting Zones of Comfort in Multiculturalism. In Be-
yond Comfort Zones in Multiculturalism. Sandra Jackson and Jose Solis, 
eds. Pp. 1-14. Westport, CT: Bergin and Garvey. 
La Belle, Thomas, and Christopher Ward 
1994 Multiculturalism and Education. Albany: State University of New York 
Press. 
Lustig, Deborah Freedman 
1994 "Sometimes You Just Have to Fight: Honor, Status, and Violence 
Among Teen Mothers. Paper presented at  the 93rd Annual Meeting of the 
American Anthropological Association, Atlanta. 
1997 In and Out of School: How School-Age Mothers Negotiate Gender, 
Class, and Race/Ethnicity. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Michigan. 
Macias, Jose, ed. 
1996 Racial and Ethnic Exclusion in Education and Society. Theme issue. 
Anthropology and Education Quarterly 27(2). 
McCarthy, Cameron 
1993 After the Canon: Knowledge and Ideological Representation in the 
Multicultural Discourse on Curriculum Reform. In Race, Identity, and 
Representation in Education. Cameron McCarthy and W. Crichlow, eds. Pp. 
289-305. New York: Routledge. 
McCarthy, Cameron, and Arlette Ingram Willis 
1995 The Politics of Culture: Multicultural Education after the Content De-
bate. In Beyond Comfort Zones in Multiculturalism. Sandra Jackson and 
Jose Solis, eds. Pp. 67-87. Westport, CT: Bergin and Garvey. 
North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools 
1946 Improving Intergroup Relations in School and Community Life. Com- 
mittee on In-Service Education of Teachers. Wichita, KS: North Central 
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools. 
O'Hair, Mary, and Sandra Odell, eds. 
1993 Diversity and Teaching. Teacher Education Yearbook, vol. 1. Fort 
Worth, TX: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich College Publishers. 
592 Anthropology G. Education Quarterly Volume 28, 1997 
Patthey-Chavez, G. Genevieve 
1993 High School as an Arena for Cultural Conflict and Acculturation for 
Latino Angelinos. Anthropology and Education Quarterly 24:3340. 
Rushton, James 
1981 Careers and the Multicultural Curriculum. In Teaching in the Multicul- 
tural School. James Lynch, ed. Pp. 163-170. London: Ward Lock. 
Schlesinger, A. M. Jr. 
1992 The Disuniting of America. New York: Norton. 
Sleeter, Christine E. 
1991 Introduction: Multicultural Education and Empowerment. In Empow-
erment through Multicultural Education. Christine E. Sleeter, ed. Pp. 1-23. 
Albany: State University of New York Press. 
Sleeter, Christine E., and Carl A. Graut 
1988 Making Choices for Multicultural Education. Upper Saddle River, NJ: 
Prentice Hall. 
Ulichny, Polly 
1996 Cultures in Conflict. Anthropology and Education Quarterly 27:331-364. 
Wallace, Michele 
1993 Multiculturalism and Oppositionality. In Race, Identity, and Repre 
sentation in Education. Cameron McCarthv and W. Crichlow, eds. PD. 
251-260. New York: Routledge. Originaiy published in ~ f t e r ima i e  
19(3):6-9. 
Warren, Curtis, and Bertha Roberts 
1945 Building for World Understanding: To Live in Peace with One An-
other-San Francisco Elementary Schools' Report on Planned Study in Inter-
cultural Education. San Francisco: San Francisco Unified School District. 
You have printed the following article:
Of Kwanzaa, Cinco de Mayo, and Whispering: The Need for Intercultural Education
Deborah Freedman Lustig
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 28, No. 4. (Dec., 1997), pp. 574-592.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28199712%2928%3A4%3C574%3AOKCDMA%3E2.0.CO%3B2-3
This article references the following linked citations. If you are trying to access articles from an
off-campus location, you may be required to first logon via your library web site to access JSTOR. Please
visit your library's website or contact a librarian to learn about options for remote access to JSTOR.
Notes
2 Cultures in Conflict
Polly Ulichny
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 27, No. 3. (Sep., 1996), pp. 331-364.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28199609%2927%3A3%3C331%3ACIC%3E2.0.CO%3B2-%23
References Cited
Toward a Definition of Local-Level Multicultural Education
Paul E. Carlson
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 7, No. 4, Anthropological Perspectives on
Multi-Cultural Education. (Nov., 1976), pp. 26-30.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28197611%297%3A4%3C26%3ATADOLM%3E2.0.CO%3B2-3
Introduction
Margaret A. Gibson
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 7, No. 4, Anthropological Perspectives on
Multi-Cultural Education. (Nov., 1976), pp. 1+3-4.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28197611%297%3A4%3C1%3AI%3E2.0.CO%3B2-2
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 1 of 2 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
Issues in Supporting School Diversity: Academics, Social Relations, and the Arts
Judith Lynne Hanna
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 1. (Mar., 1994), pp. 66-85.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28199403%2925%3A1%3C66%3AIISSDA%3E2.0.CO%3B2-N
High School as an Arena for Cultural Conflict and Acculturation for Latino Angelinos
G. Genevieve Patthey-Chavez
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 24, No. 1. (Mar., 1993), pp. 33-60.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28199303%2924%3A1%3C33%3AHSAAAF%3E2.0.CO%3B2-X
Cultures in Conflict
Polly Ulichny
Anthropology & Education Quarterly, Vol. 27, No. 3. (Sep., 1996), pp. 331-364.
Stable URL:
http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0161-7761%28199609%2927%3A3%3C331%3ACIC%3E2.0.CO%3B2-%23
http://www.jstor.org
LINKED CITATIONS
- Page 2 of 2 -
NOTE: The reference numbering from the original has been maintained in this citation list.
